Oh with the video like this you really
got a question how you use YouTube how
you reach out to your audience to what
extent YouTube is supposed to be a diary
to what extent it's supposed to be a
documentary to what extent it's supposed
to be cinema verite and to what extent
it is supposed to be what we call
heightened life aka drama theater or
artifice so I put some thought into into
this video and I decided the best way to
do it is with absolutely no thought at
all with no script with no bullet points
I'm gonna leave out whatever I'm gonna
leave out make this as spontaneous as
possible this is the story of how my
daughter was born and yes my daughter
was vegan from conception vegan from
birth have you want to put it me and my
wife now my ex-wife we're vegan all
along let's start this thing at the end
and then go back to the beginning and
offer some impressionist stick
observations along the way let's do this
real latter-day postmodern style at the
end of the process I will always
remember standing in front of a
professional government bureaucrat in
the French hospital system and trying to
get them to type my daughter's name
correctly on the legal form that would
generate her passport her birth
certificate all of these crucial pieces
of ID and my wife and I both had enough
experience up to that point without
French bureaucracy works to be terrified
because the woman we were talking to was
incompetent she had only one job the one
job was to type out the name of a newly
born baby correctly this wasn't like an
office that handled ten different things
I thought oh no no no no this was a
specialized office that only had one
function and this is a woman sitting
behind the desk only had one job and
unlike my own name my daughter's name is
not hard to spell minimum four times my
wife and I are staying there and it's
it's needless to say we have not had a
lot of sleep I don't even mean the last
48 hours we have
a lot of sleep in like a week okay and
we're standing there trying to remain
friendly with this terrifyingly
incompetent bureaucrat because we know
if this woman makes a mistake on this
form now it will be months of paperwork
to try to change it if there's a
spelling error in my daughter's name
it's one of those things where like you
know I'm not supposed to be looking at
her screen but like the first time she's
you know sitting there like an airhead
and chattering away and smiling and it's
like you reach over and look at this
tree no no no that's that's not that's
not my daughter's name you got it wrong
like we're standing here my wife speaks
French completely fluently I speak
enough to get by that the name is
written on paper it's in front of her
she's got the keyboard how is it
possible for someone would that's their
only job that's their only
responsibility to be so so terrifyingly
incompetent I'm mentioning that memory
first because our whole experience with
pregnancy and childbirth likewise at
every stage included encounters both in
Canada and in France with terrifyingly
incompetent medical professionals
bureaucrats etc and you know like it
would be a bit melodramatic to say my
life is in their hands or my daughter's
life is in their hands but sometimes it
feels that way back when we were in
Canada I remember there was one woman
and she simply operated the ultrasound
equipment and she was so uncomfortable
their only job is to ultrasound pregnant
women like that's a specialized office
you know she doesn't do broken legs or
anything else and she's totally
uncomfortable with the female body and
pregnancy in this stuff right this is
not the job how did you end up in this
job yeah what did did you show up at the
wrong auditions you know for this part
is bizarre and you know like how much am
I supposed to reassure this woman like
she could be reassuring us and I
remember at one point you
one of the two women who like this was
just incredibly uncomfortable you'd see
what the body language and that was just
with dealing with pregnant woman baby
she just said I I don't do this
procedure if the husband is in the room
so if you want to watch or you want to
be here to hold your wife's hand just
you know you have to leave that's not
allowed
and I said to her wasn't aggressive was
not Stella said okay I understand
um give me the name and phone number of
another office where we can do this
instead like we're not gonna do this
here I'm not gonna leave the room well
my wife goes through this you know
possibly my wife is gonna get bad news
you know if you hear your baby as a
health problem is something wrong no you
want to be there but I said okay fine
where do you reschedule and I said you
know well either we'll reschedule with
another technician she's not a doctor
she's a technically she's a technic you
know not a title well reschedule with
another medical professional either at
this office is that fine no problem and
she caved and she caved in the most
pathetic way like you'd think it was her
first day on the job you think this was
a totally new concept not something she
does multiple times per day seven days a
week you know she looked down at the
ground and she slumped her shoulders and
she just walked in the office like okay
then and let me even though it's a
subtle moment in dealing with medical
professionals you have to ask yourself
so on the one hand how many men have had
to sit in the hallway while their wife
got tragic bad news about a pregnancy or
something else upsetting happens during
the during the ova sound and the other
hand how many men have just stood up as
much as I did and said no that's
unacceptable we'll reschedule um how
many times has this script played out
with the two and only two possibilities
and would it be too much to expect
somebody does this for a living someone
who's a specialized professional the
same way like okay your only job is
typing out a newborn baby's name your
only job is basically being unobtrusive
and inoffensive while you operate this
this machine you know ultrasound on a
pregnant woman couldn't we replace those
people with someone who is good
the job or someone who likes the job or
someone who was at least not this
miserable and self-pitying and sulking
and inept like Wow
so look I'm not gonna blame you the
whole video could just be a catalog of
terrible experiences medical
professionals I am vegan my ex-wife is
vegan the baby as far as I know is is
vegan obviously at some point she gets
to make up online but that but in the
first 10 months yo she's not making the
rules it is true that a big part of the
drama
and the struggle after my daughter was
born was just getting vegan food for my
wife in the hospital and she was there
for several days you know wasn't there
too quick in and out and I did make the
trip from the hospital to the downtown
core of the city we were in and back
again the hospital's way out of the
outskirts and you know look I mean
disclaimer I'm about 6 foot 3 when I
wake up in the morning I'm about 6 foot
2 when I go to bed at night I normally
say I'm 6 foot 2 and a half someone
wants an accurate size but I do I do
very but I'm not I'm not that big a guy
in Europe I mean here in China even I'm
not that big a guy I remember I was with
my girlfriend at the airport after
midnight when they had the tough
security staff on um you know the
midnight crew at the airport and I just
pointed out to I said look pay attention
cuz this is like the only time in China
you're gonna see a bunch of guys
standing around her about the same size
I am they had all guys who were over 6
foot tall on security as we were exiting
the airport at about midnight that is
rare here in China I do stand out as a
big but I'm not I'm not that big a guy
but I remember whenever I would go from
the hospital downtown to buy hummus and
rice and vegetables you know prepared
food couldn't cook in the hospital but I
would buy a whole mishmash a lot of it
being you know Mediterranean and you
know Middle Eastern food and what have
you you know buy this stuff and take it
back at the hospital because I've been
dealing with so much
aggression so many insults somebody so
many denigrating statements from the
doctors and nurses and was at the
hospital it was so much sorrow and
misery and negativity you know when I
was walking down the streets just to buy
that food
I was radiating you're very sincere
feeling and there were I mean some of
those streets there were pimps there
were pushers there were drug dealers
there were some prostitutes in the
streets there were some you know there
were also just some some homeless people
but identifiably there were some some
criminals and those largely cobblestone
streets actually and I was just
radiating I wish you was and again I'm
not that big a guy I'm not that big a
guy and it was I was really thinking if
one of these people tries to bug me or
tries to start something might be a nice
break from the hospital to spend the
night in the police station or something
oh and you know all those people they
got out of my way you know people
actually slunk back from me in fear I
was walking down the road I was just
carrying was carrying like a you know
plastic bag with some falafels in it or
whatever whatever the vegan options were
I put together that night but look
already I mean I'm laughing about it now
smiling about it now four years later
happy birthday zan zan it should have
been the happiest time in my life and
entirely because of the conduct of
medical professionals
it was the most miserable the saddest I
mean really
tragically awful day of my life or
several days of my life it was just
terrible and oh man you know I've
mentioned this to friends of mine who
are black or who are non-white in
different contexts I'm sorry I'm not
look have a ton of black friends here I
come from Canada you know in some parts
of Canada like you know you're in
Victoria you see maybe one black person
a month like there are just not that
many black people or it's Canada but I
was grew up in Toronto I had one black
friend the missus
I don't have that many but still today
with friends and people and on the
internet who are who are black I
mentioned them you know during that time
living in the South of France is the
only time my life when people perceive
me as and treated me as non-white they
didn't necessarily they didn't know what
I was I think they put me in the
category of miscellaneous North African
and there are some North Africans who
are very fair-skinned I met them when I
was there in France you know the Berbers
and so on most famous it but there you
know there are a lot of ways people can
be North African and not look too far
off my appearance but in the
conversations with the doctors many of
whom were themselves non-white the main
the main doctor we dealt with was of
Arab ancestry
I never asked where she was from but
many many of the medical staff the
doctors and nurses were themselves
non-white and nevertheless racist and
racist against me and my wife as
non-white people I wish I was making
this up but we were absolutely
categorized as being poverty-stricken
miscellaneous North Africans or possibly
middle-eastern maybe someone thought
were from the Middle East or something
but I think they all assumed who were
from from North Africa and they would
say things no again some of this is
unspoken communication but a lot of it
was explicitly articulated these are
conversations you have with the doctors
and nurses you just get stuff like you
know you ask a totally respectable
question like okay yeah so what is your
procedure with the umbilical cord like
do you let the umbilical cord exhaust
itself dry up and then cut it would you
cut immediately you're asking procedural
questions that actually everyone should
ask and the doctor turning to you with
sneering contempt and saying well how do
they do it in your country then if if
you think Medicare so go to your country
why don't you why don't you do it like
that there and I reply straight up I'm
from Canada I was born in Ontario Canada
like what direction do you want to take
this conversation in and you know once
they similarly insulted my wife this way
and saying like yes well I been to the
doctor speaking well I have a degree in
medicine what kind of education do you
have from your country then and my my
wife had to answer I have a PhD from
Cambridge they were really like I'm
laughing about it now four years later
four years later to the day but let me
tell you it was no laughing matter time
even though you know after the doctors
left she and I did joke about a bit me
and my my ex-wife but Wow the level of
hostility and again fundamentally the
level of incompetence because like this
is your one job all these doctors and
nurses were specialized we were in a
specialized wing of the hospital that is
just for new births and even then I have
to add we were in a specialized wing
that is for normal births for babies
with no health problems right right and
this was just misery
unbelieva misery I know I've mentioned
somewhere in a YouTube video before at
one point I actually did have to prevent
a nurse from punching my wife or she got
so out of control emotion I had to
physically you know I didn't touch her
but I had to move her out the door I did
put my body in between the two of them
and closed the door again so she was
still screaming and yeah yeah and she
she banged the door and this kind of
stuff it was a it was a you know solid
metal door or a fireproof door I guess
the door made a big bang when she
punched it or kicked it whatever she did
um it was that raw it was that intense
and very fundamentally apart from
immaturity apart from all the other
things complain about this is a form of
incompetence
you have to understand that because if
that's your only job is to cope with
newborn babies and the questions from
parents at this time some of them simple
straightforward questions like at one
point they had to withdraw blood and
like the form just said like five now I
later figured out why this was was
printed out from a computer and said
look what is the unit like five
milliliters of blood like what how much
blood are you taking and that was
actually the time when the nurse
so angry she choice I had to physically
prevent her from punching my wife and my
wife my wife is bedridden by the way but
wife is not standing up she's laid out
you talk about punching a woman in a in
a stretcher in in a hospital bed you
know that time the question was actually
said look you know before I can consents
cuz you only want me to sign this yeah
there's no unit how much blood he taking
and you know what I'm certain it is now
I'm certain because printed out from a
computer and the computer couldn't make
the Greek symbol it must have been
microliters you know is supposed to have
a special symbol after the five but
sometimes when a computer can't do so
that it just leaves it blank and none of
them case the question team of nurses in
the room and now the new what unit is
this much closer it's not five liters
people how much they couldn't and think
they couldn't answer the question and
again they couldn't even keep calm they
couldn't even in a reasonable you know
and helpful way deal with and respond to
a question like that from a parent whose
concern so that immense a the whole
situation from day one should have been
the happiest day of my life and instead
it was the most harrowing and the most
miserable not due to any health problem
my daughter had my daughter was a
hundred and ten percent healthy the
pregnancy and the birth they were they
were better than a hundred percent
perfect I'll come back to that it was it
was just the attitudes of the medical
professionals of all including their
attitudes in their hatred for us as
vegans and we did get again this is not
just interpreting body language or the
look in somebody's eye you know they
spelled it out for us and they asked us
crazy questions about veganism they
showed just how much contempt they had
for us because we're that we were vegan
and that they assumed we would be you
know anti vaccine they assumed you were
members of a cult they asked us directly
about that if we were called member
because we were vegan it was really
really awful so purely for that reason
not due to any conduct on my daughter's
part not to Denny Connor to my ex-wife's
part they were both impeccable not do
they because like on my part
surely due to the attitudes and medical
professionals it was a harrowing and
traumatizing experience and it need the
Bennett's shouldn't have been but
keeping it all the way real I just
mentioned we were in a special wing it
was just healthy babies
it was just new births and I was always
going out to buy food and come back one
time I went and got food I came back and
I just took a different staircase to get
up to the room that oh but it's a
shorter trip if I if I come up this way
and I went through the special wing that
is for babies born with a heart defect
Wow just walking down that hallway just
seeing the parents you know leaning
against the wall standing in the hallway
standing outside the doors I didn't you
know I wasn't going to anyone's room I
was just walking down the hallway the
sense of ambient tragedy hanging in the
air was on another level I said to my
said that my wife when I got in look you
know if you're ever feeling that we have
it hard here in this wing of the
hospital you're feeling sorry for
yourself because we do it was the heart
it was a horrible experience okay you
can go through two pairs of double doors
that way and go into that wing and those
are the babies that were not born
healthy and you can take a look at the
expressions on the faces of the parents
in there and and you can see what it's
like for the people in this hospital who
really have it hard but again keeping it
all the way real as I'm want to do look
guys this is also why I think we had
doctors and nurses who were so
incompetent I think the doctors and
nurses who were really talented and
really reliable were all being assigned
to more high pressure wing as the
hospital even was within the maternity
ward you know so probably the best
nurses and the best doctors we're
dealing with the babies who have health
problems or in those other departments
or they're dealing with heart surgery or
cancer surgery or you
but there was so much specialization was
a big famous hospital that I think we
were getting the worst of the worst
we're getting the least competent even
within you know the doctors and nurses
dealing with maternity boo-boos
shocking unbelievable but that I just
mentioned that also happens a lot in the
military even of friends of mine but
also just family members who have
experiences know working in the military
they've often said to me you know you
get the situation where you know the
really sharp people are are reassigned
to two crucial departments and then when
you're in a department that there's some
more slack in the rope so to speak where
things are not so urgent where things
are not life threatening then you just
seem to be shocked all the time you seem
to be amazed at the levels of
incompetence that you're dealing with so
I think some of that was going on in
that hospital now terrorism my own
experience you know we did go through
parent education in Canada we went to
will be the word but in orientation
meetings or special education meetings
where medical professional talks you
through what's gonna happen with the
birth and what can go wrong and how to
prepare yourself and they show you video
of birth itself and of newborn babies
and of what to expect and explain to you
how the hospitals are organized so in
Canada before we went to France for the
birth I did actually have that
background that education so you know as
in most movies and TV shows I was
expecting newborn baby to be this kind
of screaming ugly covered with mucus
covered with blood you know spectacle
that you've seen in movies and that
indeed that's what I saw even in these
educational documentaries that I saw
with with an educator breaking all these
things down and when they actually
handed my daughter to me on the contrary
there was no blood on her there was no
mucus on her she wasn't screaming
she was completely peacefully sleeping
she looked beautiful she didn't look
like a newborn baby she looked like a 1
month old baby everything was completely
fully for
and developed every eyelash was perfect
you know what's the eyebrows are perfect
mm-hmm she wasn't upset she didn't seem
to be surprised to be born she didn't
look beautiful she looked different just
a couple days later into the you know
into her life but um you know I do
remember what she looked like and they
handed me this baby and time/thought
this looks like a fake baby if I take a
photograph myself holding this baby
people will think it's at least a week
old this does not look like the baby one
moment after it was born now there are
reasons for that including the fact that
a lot of what you see the images of
babies are born earlier in their term
and my daughter went all the way through
she was she had a full 100% development
in the womb so she is in effect a little
bit older than what a lot of other new
babies look like and some of those
things you see in a newborn baby the the
mucus and so on depending on on how late
into the final trimester you give birth
I'm told that those things vary so again
I got I did get some education in this
but still it was striking and bizarre
and Deena wanted this so I'm again I'm
handed this baby and this should be a
moment of joy or happiness or I should
at least have my wife there next to me
what have you but for purely
bureaucratic reasons they put me in like
a closet with this newborn baby it was
this tiny windowless room with the door
they put me there with the baby and then
they separately relocated my wife to a
room where she would wait there'll be
the room she slept in and what have you
to to her main room and I had to wait in
this closet with this newborn baby now
you know I think anytime this baby is
gonna wake up and want to breastfeed or
what-have-you this is a stressful
situation and hours are going by and
finally so there are two nurses working
this special ward this special area
there's no about there's nobody else
there's no other patient there no other
men there nope there's nobody else it's
me with a baby in this closet and I'm
waiting there for no legitimate reason
right like I think
I mean if they want to put me there for
five minutes I don't know why and then
my wife goes the other I have no idea
why I'm guessing it's because legally
there's a question of who actually has
custody of the baby during those few
minutes there's like I have no idea why
and ultimately after a couple of hours
ago I like this with me being in the you
know low-key terrifying situation also
you know I don't speak French that well
of being assigned to this bizarre room
and this Ward and not knowing why I'm
not in the same room with my with my
wife now my ex-wife you know finally I
just have to come in I'm holding the
baby and have to come out and have to
stand in the hall in front of the office
where these two nurses are and they just
keep saying no just wait in the room
swayed in the room and they say to me
legally you can't stand there you have
to go into the cubicle with me like it's
a crime for you to stand in the hallway
and I said to them in French call the
police I said I understand your
situation I can't wait in this room with
my baby any longer and with nothing else
by the way like you're just in a [ __ ]
concrete cell with the baby it's not
like I have a milk bottle or anything
else either said if you have to call the
police good call the police because I
can't wait anymore and then obviously
one nurse was more senior than the other
and the more senior nurse said this is
all in French of course she said
dismissively in contemptuously so you
just have to wait into that room until
you know your wife has been moved into
into her room as milk in her and the
more junior nurse said that happened
hours ago you had that moment where
there are people in authority there are
people wearing uniforms and they were
just threatening to call the cops on me
and and put me in jail really seriously
they were that was what they were saying
and they suddenly have a moment of
recognition that they're in the wrong
and that I've done nothing wrong and are
they going to admit that or they're
gonna apologize to me or what and this
is France nobody nobody an authority
they miss that they're wrong nobody so
it's a terrifying thing actually about
dealing with French government
then there was a final stage where they
wanted me to go out into a main hallway
down another hallway turn left and go
through an unmarked door there was a
door with no sign and no doorknob there
was a completely unmarked door in a
hallway full of confusing doors because
that was their protocol to prevent
people from stealing the baby and they
said okay so you leave the baby here and
then you follow these complex
instructions you go through the door and
if you ask which door they say there's
no sign there's no number it's just one
of the doors you'll you'll figure it out
and again I haven't slept in 48 hours
well you know it's normal when you have
a newborn baby you go for a long period
of time I'm sorry it's the man unless
you're sleeping while your wife's awake
but I was awake the whole time went
through the whole process with my
ex-wife and you know so I haven't slept
in very long time I just said to them no
I'm not gonna figure it out I said look
like we can I can go through another
door like I'm not gonna do this like you
know which was completely honest and
completely true and again my ability to
speak French is what it is and again so
the senior nurse starts threatening to
call the cops or something but I'm just
admitting to you you guys have a complex
system where for some reason you want me
to be separated from my baby and then go
through this other door and that's
that's not gonna work right now you know
and finally the junior nurse who was
obviously the smarter of the two she
just admitted that it's a problem like
yeah like a lot of parents get lost
looking from that door like it actually
is a problem this it's a hidden door
it's intentionally hard to find that's
why they call it hidden and so the
younger nurse just silently she walked
out the door she said follow me she
walked in the hallway and then she
opened the secret door for me she
pointed to the correct door so I got
mine and I was glad I was completely
right you know it would have been a
disaster otherwise so then I went
through that door and then the same
nurse walked down and got my baby and
brought it to me at the secret door
so you know just now recently I've had a
death in the family my father is now
deceased and I was talking to my mom a
little bit and you know philosophizing a
bit with her using my robust background
and Buddhist philosophy and European
philosophy to say something profound and
meaningful in the situation I'm pretty
good at I can improvise philosophy
lessons without without too much trouble
and you know one of things I said to my
mom was look you know you're going
through this situation where the
absurdity you have to deal with every
day
is the contrast between the profound and
personal nature of why you were at the
hospital and the antiseptic
authoritarian bureaucratic dehumanizing
nature of what the hospital is itself a
lot of people if they had to choose
between dying on a battlefield and dying
on a hospital would rather die in a
battlefield we rather die in any
situation more meaningful or more poetic
than being in a hospital it's just one
is just not very well suited to the
other you know hospitals not a good
place to be born it's not a good place
to die Hey it's it's lacking it's
lacking the very soul that's such a
place ought to have to be the place
where you you first meet your own son
there you first meet your own daughter
you first hold a baby in your arms or
where you say goodbye to your father or
your grandfather as they're going
through their last minute but no I mean
for better and for worse that is the
format you know that is the institution
that our culture is created where people
deal with all of these you know terrible
and terrifying transitions of the
beginning and ending of life and that in
short is my story of how my daughter was
born